Add cloud condensate sedimentation velocity (#462)
CliMA/CloudMicrophysics.jl: docs/src/TerminalVelocity.md

# Terminal velocity

`CloudMicrophysics.jl` offers three parameterizations of the relationship between

> particle size and its terminal velocity:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
particle size and terminal velocity:
```

>  - A simple power-law used in the 1-moment miscophysics scheme rates,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - A simple power-law used in the 1-moment microphysics scheme,
```

 - The rain terminal velocity used in Seifert and Beheng 2006 [SeifertBeheng2006](@cite),

>  - The rain and ice terminal velocity described in Chen et. al. 2022  [Chen2022](@cite).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The rain and ice terminal velocities described in Chen et. al. 2022  [Chen2022](@cite).
```

The above terminal velocities need to be averaged over the assumed

>   particle size distributions, in order to get the mass and number weighted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  particle size distributions, to get the mass- or number-weighted
```

  group terminal velocities used in the bulks schemes:

>  - In the non-equilibrium microphysics we use [Chen2022](@cite) and assume a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - In the non-equilibrium microphysics, we use the Chen et al. [Chen2022](@cite) parameterization and assume a
```

>    monodisperse distribution to obtain cloud liquid and cloud ice sedimentation velocity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   monodisperse size distribution to obtain the cloud liquid and cloud ice sedimentation velocities.
```

>  - In 1M microphysics we assume an exponential size distribution for rain and snow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - In 1M microphysics, we assume an exponential size distribution for rain and snow
```

   and use the power-law formulation when deriving process rates such as accretion.

>    The [Chen2022](@cite) terminal velocity is available in 1-moment scheme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The Chen et al. [Chen2022](@cite) terminal velocity is available in 1-moment scheme
```

   for rain and snow, but without re-deriving other process rates.

>  - The 2-moment scheme can be run with either the [SeifertBeheng2006](@cite)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The 2-moment scheme can be run with either the Seifert and Beheng [SeifertBeheng2006](@cite)
```

>    or [Chen2022](@cite) terminal velocity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   or the Chen et al. [Chen2022](@cite) terminal velocity.
```

>  - The P3 scheme can only be run with the [Chen2022](@cite) terminal velocity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The P3 scheme can only be run with the Chen et al. [Chen2022](@cite) terminal velocity
```

   and uses it when deriving the process rates.

> See the relevant sections in 1M, 2M, P3 and non-equilibrium microphysics sections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the relevant sections in 1M, 2M, P3 and non-equilibrium microphysics documentation
```
(add links?)

  for more details.

## Power-law relationship

We assume that rain drop and snow terminal velocities can be parameterized as
```math
v_{term}(r) = \chi_v \, v_0 \left(\frac{r}{r_0}\right)^{v_e + \Delta_v}
```
where:
 - ``r`` is the particle radius,
 - ``r_0`` is the typical particle radius used to nondimensionalize,
 - ``v_0, \, v_e \,`` are the default  coefficients,
 - ``\chi_v``, ``\Delta_v``
   are the coefficients that can be used during model calibration to expand
   around the default values.
   Without calibration all ``\chi`` parameters are set to 1
   and all ``\Delta`` parameters are set to 0.

> The rain drop terminal velocity coefficients are obrained from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rain drop terminal velocity coefficients are obtained from the
```

>   the balance between the gravitational acceleration (taking into account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  balance between the gravitational acceleration (taking into account
```

  the density difference between water and air) and the drag force:
```math
\begin{equation}
v_0^{rai} =
  \left(
    \frac{8}{3 \, C_{drag}} \left( \frac{\rho_{w}}{\rho} -1 \right)
  \right)^{1/2} (g r_0^{rai})^{1/2}
\label{eq:vdrop}
\end{equation}
```
where:
 - ``g`` is the gravitational acceleration,
 - ``C_{drag}`` is the drag coefficient,
 - ``\rho`` is the density of air,
 - ``\rho_w`` is the density of water.

Assuming a constant drag coefficient for rain drops is a big approximation,
  as it should be size and flow
  [dependent](https://www1.grc.nasa.gov/beginners-guide-to-aeronautics/drag-of-a-sphere/).

> The coefficients for snow terminal velocity are empirical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The coefficients for the snow terminal velocity are empirical.
```

|    symbol     |         definition                      | units           | default value         | reference |
|---------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------|-----------------------|-----------|
|``C_{drag}``   | rain drop drag coefficient              | -               | ``0.55``              | ``C_{drag}`` is such that the mass averaged terminal velocity is close to [Grabowski1996](@cite) |
|``r_0^{rai}``  | typical rain drop radius                | ``m``           | ``10^{-3} ``          |           |
|``v_e^{rai}``  | exponent in ``v_{term}(r)`` for rain    | -               | ``0.5``               |           |
|``r_0^{sno}``  | typical snow crystal radius             | ``m``           | ``10^{-3} ``          |           |
|``v_0^{sno}``  | coefficient in ``v_{term}(r)`` for snow | ``\frac{m}{s}`` | ``2^{9/4} r_0^{1/4}`` | eq (6b) [Grabowski1998](@cite) |
|``v_e^{sno}``  | exponent in ``v_{term}(r)`` for snow    | -               | ``0.25``              | eq (6b) [Grabowski1998](@cite) |

## Seifert and Beheng 2006

> [SeifertBeheng2006](@cite) uses an empirical relationship between the rain drop size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seifert and Beheng [SeifertBeheng2006](@cite) uses an empirical relationship between the rain drop size
```

  and its terminal velocity
```math
v_{term}(D) = \left(\frac{\rho_0}{\rho}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}} [a_R - b_R e^{-c_R D}]
```
where:

>  - ``a_R``, ``b_R`` and ``c_R`` are three free parameters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - ``a_R``, ``b_R`` and ``c_R`` are  free parameters,
```

 - ``D`` is the rain drop diameter.

> The default free parameter values are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default parameter values are
```

|   symbol                   | default value | units           |
|----------------------------|---------------|-----------------|
|``a_R``                     | ``9.65``      | ``\frac{m}{s}`` |
|``b_R``                     | ``10.3``      | ``\frac{m}{s}`` |
|``c_R``                     | ``600``       | ``\frac{1}{m}`` |

## Chen et. al. 2022

> [Chen2022](@cite) provides a terminal velocity parameterisation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chen et al. [Chen2022](@cite) provide a terminal velocity parameterization
```

>   based on an empirical fit to a high accuracy model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  based on an empirical fit to a high-accuracy model.
```

> The terminal velocity depends on particle shape, size and density,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terminal velocity depends on particle shape, size, and density,
```

>   consideres the deformation effects of large rain drops,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and it considers the deformation of large rain drops,
```

>   as well as size-specific air density dependence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as well as a size-specific air density dependence.
```

> The fall speed of individual particles is parameterized as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fall speed of individual particles is parameterized as
```

```math
\begin{equation}
    v_{term}(D) = \phi^{\kappa} \sum_{i=1}^{j} \; a_i D^{b_i} e^{-c_i \; D}
\end{equation}
```
where:
 - ``D`` is the particle diameter,
 - ``a_i``, ``b_i``, ``c_i`` are the free parameters,
 - ``\phi`` is the aspect ratio, and
 - ``\kappa`` is a parameter that depends on the particle shape
   (``\kappa=0`` for spheres, ``\kappa=-1/3`` for oblate and ``\kappa=1/6`` for prolate spheroids).

> For ice ``j=2`` and for rain ``j=3``, to account for deformation at larger sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For ice, ``j=2``, and for rain, ``j=3``, to account for deformation at larger drop sizes.
```

The rain parameterization is valid for ``D > 100 \; \mu m``.
The free parameter values for solid particles are different for small and large sizes,
  with a cutoff diameter ``D = 625 \; \mu m``.

The aspect ratio is defined as:
```math
\begin{equation}
    \phi \equiv c/a
\end{equation}
```
where:
 - ``a`` is the basal plane axial half-length, and
 - ``c`` is perpendicular to the basal plane.

> In non-equilibrium cloud microphysics scheme we assume that both cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the non-equilibrium cloud microphysics scheme, we assume that both cloud
```

  droplets and ice crystals are spherical and ``\phi=1``.

> In all bulk schemes we assume that rain drops are spherical and ``\phi=1``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In all bulk schemes, we assume that rain drops are spherical and ``\phi=1``.
```

> In 1-moment bulk scheme for snow and in the P3 scheme we assume that ``\kappa = -1/3``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the 1-moment bulk scheme for snow and in the P3 scheme, we assume that ``\kappa = -1/3``.
```

We compute the aspect ratio based on the assumed ``m(r)`` and ``a(r)`` relationships,

>   and assuming that the particle volume can be represented as ``V_p = 4\pi/3 \; a^2 c``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  assuming that the particle volume can be represented as ``V_p = 4\pi/3 \; a^2 c``,
```

  and particle cross section area as ``A_p = \pi a c``.

## Example figures

> In the top row of the figure below we show different particle terminal velocities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the top row of the figure below, we show different particle terminal velocities
```

  in cloud (left panel) and precipitation (middle panel) size range.

> In the top row right panel we also show the snow particle aspect ratio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the top right panel, we also show the snow particle aspect ratio.
```

> In the bottom row we show the group sedimentation velocities for cloud condensate (left panel)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the bottom row, we show the group sedimentation velocities for cloud condensate (left panel)
```
